It is with great reluctance that we sell this work of art that doubles as a canoe but it has to go because we have nowhere to store it. It's has been stored in garages at friends' houses during the last three years that we've owned it; we thought we'd have our own house and our own garage by now but it hasn't happened.

This is an American Traders "Feather" canoe http://www.amtraders.com/c-detail.asp?Model=Feather&Material=WE  and from their web site, it appears the correct description is "wood/epoxy red cedar planking". I've put additional photos and details on my site at http://www.sweetandsour.org/canoe/.

Don't buy this canoe if you want to take it in white water as the timber will scratch when you hit rocks. Equally, don't buy it if it will bother you that total strangers will come up to you and admire the canoe and tell you how beautiful it is. It does get attention, even when on top of a car.

The manufacture describes this as being CR/DT for "Casual Recreational Canoes" (Best design for all purpose paddling on flat water.  Good family recreational boat.  Generally stability is featured above performance) and "Day Tripper" (Medium-volume canoes meant to carry two paddlers and a weekend’s worth of gear – about 550lbs.  They’re lightweight and fairly quick on the water.)

It weighs 49 lbs and so is light enough for a reasonably fit adult to carry on his or her shoulders.

If you were to buy this new, it would cost $2990.. Note however that it is not in as-new condition though it is still pretty good. There are two issues to mention:

    * the gunwale (the timber around the top edge) is a bit damaged at the front and ideally should be repaired
    * the front seat needs new rawhide; I tried to do this myself but did a poor job of it as you'll see in the picture.

We live in Alexandria, Virginia but the canoe is in Marbury (near Indian Head), Maryland about 35 miles away. If you live in the Washington DC area, I'll be happy to deliver it to you (check with me first before you bid as your idea of the metro area may differ to mine), otherwise you'll need to come to our friends' house and I'll meet you there.

As I say, we'd love to keep it but we've imposed on our friends long enough and I hope that whoever buys it can get more use out of it than we've been able to.

Thank you for checking it out.
