Dear Malcolm,


Thank you for the show "Dragon Psychology 101". I was astonished at how many works of art are acquired by galleries! It makes me angry that their value is not shown in their accounts and in the case of MOMA, staff were laid off and a steep entry fee was charged rather than sell off a few items, or at least stop acquiring new ones.


Moving to "Hedwig's Lost Van Gogh":


I do not begrudge families trying to recover art that was seized by the Nazis, or in the case of this particular painting, sold by an ancestor under duress.


However, it seems disingenuous for Israel and the Jewish diaspora to pursue the restoration of lost works of art while also denying that Palestinians who fled for their lives in the war that led to the establishment of Israel in 1948 have any claim to the houses and land that they once owned. Movies such as "Woman in Gold" and podcasts such as this one further the case of wealthy families getting their art back but who is making the case for the poor Palestinians? Generations later, many of them are still refugess and stateless, unable to make a new, prosperous life elsewhere. Surely it is more consequential to lose your house than a painting. I would LOVE for you to consider this problem and do a show about it.


I think a useful way to think about pretty much every issue related to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is to ask yourself if your view would change if the war in 1948 had gone the other way i.e. that the area we now call Israel was under Palestinian control and Jewish people had fled to refugee camps and in many cases were still there generations later. To take one example, if there were 1.8 million Jews inside the Gaza Strip instead of Palestinians, would America be OK with a Palestinian policy of shooting to kill any Jewish person coming within 300m (1000ft) of the border fence? I very much doubt it. https://www.reuters.com/article/uk-israel-palestinians-gaza-idAFKCN0Q52C920150731 and https://www.hrw.org/news/2018/04/03/israel-gaza-killings-unlawful-calculated.


As has been said many times before, there will be no peace until there is justice and there seems little prospect of that in the foreseeable future but you can help educate people so real change can occur.


Here is a starting point: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Palestinian_right_of_return


Thank you.


- Peter
(Lisbon, Portugal but formerly Washington DC)


P.S. In this episode you gave the dimensions of the painting... in inches. The vast majority of the world uses the Metric system so any time you reference a size or weight, please give the metric equivalent too. Or instead of!

